{102: "An introduction to the structure, design and operation of the internet, including the electronic and physical structure of networks; packet switching; how email and web browsers work, domain names, mail protocols, encoding and compression, http and HTML, the design of web pages, the operation of search engines, beginning JavaScript; CSS. Both history and societal implications are explored. The course meets for the first half or second half of the semester only. Prerequisite: basic familiarity with word processing",
 103: "This introductory course provides students with a broad understanding of computer hardware, software and operating systems. Topics include the history of computers; logic circuits; major hardware components and their design, including processors, memory, disks, and video monitors; programming languages and their role in developing applications; and operating system functions, including file system support and multitasking, multiprogramming and timesharing. Offered first or second half of the semester. Prerequisite: none",
 105: "A half-semester introduction to the design and creation of interactive environments on the world wide web. Focus on three areas: (1) Website design, (2) JavaScript, (3) Embedded multimedia objects. Prerequisite: CSC 102 or equivalent competency with HTML.",
 111: "Introduction to a block-structured, object-oriented high-level programming language. Covering language syntax and use the language to teach program design, coding, debugging, testing and documentation. Procedural and data abstraction are introduced. Prerequisite: none.",
 205: "This course integrates the use of mathematics and computers for modeling various phenomena drawn from the natural and social sciences. Scientific topics, organized as case studies, span a wide range of systems at all scales, with special emphasis on the life sciences. Mathematical tools include data analysis, discrete and continuous dynamical systems and discrete geometry. This is a project-based course and provides elementary training in programming using Mathematica. Prerequisite: MTH 112 or MTH 114. CSC 111 recommended.",
 212: "Explores elementary data structures (linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs) and algorithms (searching, sorting) in a variety of contexts, including event-driven applications with a graphical user interface. Emphasizes object-oriented programming throughout, using the Java programming language. Prerequisite: CSC 111.",
 220: "Focuses on several advanced programming environments, with a project for each. Includes object-oriented programming, graphical user interfaces (GUIs), and principles of software engineering. Topics cover the software development cycle, including versioning, code maintenance, cross-platform development, debugging as well as iterative testing and evaluation. Techniques include asynchronous and event-based programming, server-client development, data exchange via JSON. Prerequisite: CSC 212.",
 231: "An introduction to the architecture of the Intel Pentium class processor and its assembly language in the Linux environment. Students write programs in assembly and explore the architectural features of the Pentium, including its use of the memory, the data formats used to represent information, the implementation of high-level language constructs, integer and floating-point arithmetic, and how the processor deals with I/O devices and interrupts. Prerequisite: 212 or permission of the instructor.",
 240: "Covers two-dimensional drawings and transformations, three-dimensional graphics, lighting and colors, game design, perspective, curves and surfaces, ray tracing. Employs Postscript, C++, GameMaker, POV-ray, and radiosity. The course accommodates both CS majors, for whom it is programming intensive, and other students with less technical expertise, by having two tracks of assignments. Prerequisite: CSC 111 and MTH 111 or permission of the instructor; otherwise, CSC 111 or permission of the instructor.",
 249: "This course introduces fundamental concepts in the design and implementation of computer communication networks, their protocols and applications. Topics covered include layered network architecture, physical layer and data link protocols; and transport protocols; routing protocols and applications. Most case studies are drawn from the Internet TCP/IP protocol suite. Prerequisite: CSC 111 and MTH 153.",
 250: "Automata and finite state machines, regular sets and regular languages; push-down automata and context-free languages; linear-bounded automata; computability and Turing machines; nondeterminism and undecidability. Prerequisite: CSC 111 and MTH 153.",
 252: "Covers algorithm design techniques (“divide-and-conquer,” dynamic programming, ”greedy” algorithms, etc.), analysis techniques (including big-O notation, recurrence relations), useful data structures (including heaps, search trees, adjacency lists), efficient algorithms for a variety of problems, and NP-completeness. Prerequisite: CSC 212, MTH 111, MTH 153.",
 262: "An introduction to the functions of an operating system and their underlying implementation. Topics include file systems, CPU and memory management, concurrent communicating processes, deadlock, and access and protection issues. Programming projects will implement and explore algorithms related to several of these topics. Prerequisite: CSC 231.",
 270: "This class introduces the operation of logic and sequential circuits. Students explore basic logic gates (AND, OR, NAND, NOR), counters, flip-flops, decoders, microprocessor systems. Students have the opportunity to design and implement digital circuits during a weekly lab. Prerequisite: CSC 231.",
 274: "Topics include the core of the field: polygons, convex hulls, triangulations and Voronoi diagrams. Beyond this core, curves and surfaces, and polyhedral and configuration spaces are covered. Throughout, a dual emphasis is maintained on mathematical proofs and efficient algorithms. Students have a choice of concentrating their course work in mathematics or toward computer science. Prerequisite: MTH 153, MTH 111 recommended. CSC 111.",
 330: "This course covers principles of database systems, including such topics as data independence, storage structures, relational data models, security, and integrity. It will also touch on some non-relational database systems, and alternative consistency mechanisms. As a seminar course, it will mix theory, programming, and research. Prerequisite: CSC 212 and MTH 153.",
 352: "The primary objective of this course is to examine the state of the art and practice in parallel and distributed computing, and to expose students to the challenges of developing distributed applications. This course deals with the fundamental principles in building distributed applications using C and C++, and parallel extensions to these languages. Topics include process and synchronization, multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI) and distributed objects. Prerequisite: 212 and 252.",
 360: "By fitting comfortably in our pockets and bags, smartphones are worn on our bodies throughout the day and remain by our pillows at night. These mobile computers are packed with accelerometers, gyroscopes, cameras, microphones and even GPS. They present a unique platform for location and context-aware software. Through readings and projects, this course examines the opportunities and challenges presented by mobile computing. This is a hands-on seminar; projects include the development and deployment of applications on smartphones and other mobile devices. Prerequisite: CSC 212 or permission of the instructor. Closed to first-year students or sophomores.",
 370: "Seminar: Explores the challenge of computer vision through readings of original papers and implementation of classic algorithms. This seminar considers techniques for extracting useful information from digital images, including both the motivation and the mathematical underpinnings. Topics range from low-level techniques for image enhancement and feature detection to higher-level issues such as stereo vision, image retrieval and segmentation of tracking of objects. Prerequisite: CSC 212, MTH 153."
}
